>> [MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: All right, so
now is the time for us to open up and
ask questions about anything we've
been exploring the last three days, or
ask me anything about node, APIs,
express, mongodb, mongoose, or
anything internal.
Yo.
>> Speaker 2: As far as API design goes,
I've heard some people say like,
let say you have, let say you're on, like,
the Netflix home page and
has all those movie tiles.
They say, like, if you do a request for
each one of those tiles,
it's gonna be a lot of requests.
So, there are like add
parameters at the end.
I want a group of six.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Stuff like that, so
what I'm wondering is like how should
you balance how many parameters and
stuff you should put on, and
how restful you want to design the API?
>> Scott Moss: There ares
common patterns like ordering, sorting,
filtering those are common limits.
And then if you're doing something
like consignation you have like
a cursor where it says start, and
you can figure out what page you are on.
So those are common ones.
As far as the properties, it depends on
what type of properties you want people
to be able to search by, for instance, if
the user, all we have is a user name and
a password here, but what if we
had multiple properties on here.
It also depends on what did you index
right, so if you indexed the user name it
might behoove you allow people to search
by the user name do a query string, so
you can get that benefit of that constant
time look up speed of the indexed field.
So, I guess it all depends, but
there are the common ones like I said, and
then it's gonna be up to you to pin on
what you want the users to search by.
Maybe you don't want the users searching
by their Facebook access token.
So, you don't want to put that there.
But really what would happen is
you would build like an agnostic
query builder that doesn't know about
what the query perimeters are and
actually it doesn't care, and
that's where Mongo kind of shines.
We didn't get into
the advance query of Mongo,
because I told you that's a whole
other thing by itself, but
Mongo will allow you to like pass in
different query params like that.
And if you match them up exactly to
rec.query.params, and pass in and
out to Mongo query, you can pretty
much get whatever they pass in right.
And then you can leave it up
to Mongo to decide if that
is a valid parameter or not.
So, you don't have to do
the checking yourself right.
Like for instance, on my user Hold on.
Where's my user.
Let's go to user.
I only have her user name and
password, but
somebody typed in a parameter looking for
an age.
Mongo's not going to find
anything with that on it.
So, I don't have to check for
it, although I could.
You see what I mean?
I could leave it up to
Mongo to figure out,
if it's going to find something
with an age property on it.
Which it's obviously not,
cause no users have an age property on it.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so like you
can totally do that.
Like, that would look something like this.
So for like, for instance, I want to get
users, but I wanna limit to 20, right.
And you know, I want their age to be like
equals and then like,
you might do like some encoding here.
It's like, this obviously isn't valid.
You do like greater than.
Something like that.
You can do all types of things in here.
You can even pass them like a JSON string.
So it's up to you.
There is no limit on what you can
do as far as the query parameters.
It's just like what type of-
what does your client need?
What type of data do they need?
So, it's very much up to you.
A good example, if you want to
check it out is parts, parts api,
they have one of the best apis I've seen,
so I'd check that out.
Yes?
>> Speaker 3: Some questions
are rolling in here.
What's the most effective way
to identify the right module, or
library when there's so many.
Are there sites, or
anything that help you?
>> Scott Moss: So, the way I do it,
there is no, if it's really really good
there will be blog posts about it.
You just won't be able to,
if there was something really good and
you google how do I do this in node,
it'll be the first thing to come up.
If that's not the case,
if it's not obvious, then what you do is
you find something you think is good.
The first thing I do is,
I go to node, I click on the GitHub.
That 404ed.
Totally not gonna use that, right?
So then I go, I stay in npm.
I'll start Googling stuff, and
a big indicator if something is
great is when it was last updated.
So, if I click on this.
The thing's got 246 stars,
relatively okay.
It's got a link to a website
that's being hosted somewhere.
That means they probably put some work
into it or they're just trying to market.
I don't know.
The readme looks pretty sophisticated.
It looks like it's kept up to date.
So I mean I guess it all depends on
how well done is the re-meet, or
the re-pull looks like.
It was updated 17 days ago.
That's pretty current.
So, that's a good indicator
that it's being used.
So, obviously a combination of the stars
on GitHub, the last time it was updated.
If you can find any blog post,
if you can find anybody talking about it.
But if it's just something where it's just
like, two stars, updated four months ago.
The read me has like two lines in it, but
you think it's exactly what you need?
Probably not the thing.
I would rather make my
own thing than use that.
So yeah, and it would be pretty obvious
if somebody was, if this was proper.
Just look at the activity, stars, watches,
update times, and how nice is the readme.
This is a pretty good readme.
This person put a lot of time into it.
So, yep.
>> Speaker 3: How
does MongoDB performance compare
with enterprise level databases like
Oracle?
>> Scott Moss: Man.
I don't know anything about Oracle,
so I cannot compare the two.
I've never had to use Oracle in my entire
life, but I do know if you had Oracle,
it comes with a db administrator
that handles it for you, right.
Doesn't it come with a person?
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Scott Moss: Right?
Don't you think of Oracle, it comes
with a person who handles that for you?
But I can say that Mongo
is very performant,
because it's based off of an eventing
system kind of like Note.
So as far as performance,
it's actually pretty fast, but
it doesn't mean it's the best.
Speed is not everything
when it comes to database.
It's all about all types of other stuff.
Is it ACID-compliant?
What are the reads, what are the writes?
What is it good for,
is it better for reads or the writes?
There's a lot of the stuff
goes in day-to-day support.
>> Speaker 2: Is the API usable?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, is the api usable,
can it [CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 2: Mongo will allow it,
because it's like a hybrid of
>> Scott Moss: Exactly.
>> Speaker 2: A lot of things are easier
to get started with.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
Mongo's very easy to get started with.
Where it's like if you've never
studied relational databases, and
the first time you used a database was
like I'm gonna use Postgre or SQL.
You might have a hard time
understanding why this stuff is.
Like, what is a?
What is a migration?
What is this?
What is that?
Like, if you never studied databases,
that stuff doesn't make sense to you,
whereas Mongo is like just connect,
and you're okay.
Give me JavaScript.
So it's like a lead,
a lot of easier setup.
So, yeah it's pretty fast because it
doesn't have to do things like join tables
and stuff like that.
But again,
it's not the best thing for everything.
>> Speaker 3: So I guess what they're
asking, following up, if you're shipping
an app in production with a huge amount of
users, can Mongo support that?
>> Scott Moss: I don't
know what a huge amount of users is,
like I said at the end I don't think
it comes down to how much it's storing.
It's coming down to like what
you're doing with the data,
are you gonna be reading
more than writing?
What are you gonna be writing?
How many concurrent users?
How many concurrent writes
are you gonna have, right?
And I think that's more important than
an amount of shared data that it's
gonna store.
I've heard problems with Mongo,
where people are saying that
sometimes things wouldn't write.
I've never entered that
problem personally.
But again, I've never built
a big data platform either.
I'm not a big data person.
So, I can not comment on that.
But I've also heard other
things about SQL and stuff.
So, I mean, the the pros and
cons are Mongo is easy to get started.
It's really good for prototyping.
You could probably get
away using the production.
Cuz it's really good.
But then again, SQL is probably overall
is gonna have better performance,
Postgre SQL.
But you actually need
to know how to use it,
it's only going to be good,
if you know what you're doing.
If you don't know how to
administer a relational database,
then you're not going to have fun with it.
>> Speaker 2: I think people
tend to over think scalability,
because they
think my apps going to be huge.
>> Scott Moss: Right.
>> Speaker 2: Right, but when
they actually run into issues
in a company that's worth millions-
>> Scott Moss: Yeah.
You got funny and you can fix it.
Yeah.
So, it's like,
it's not even your problem now,
like, just use it.
I've never had a problem mongodb.
I've built client work of mongodb.
I've never had a problem.
I have know people who have
had that problems with, but
I've never had problems with it.
>> Speaker 3: More stuff rolling
in on that.
So, when building a backend API like this,
why use NoSQL database or
relational database?
Mongo seems pretty much trying to
replicate much of the functionality of
a relational database.
But I think you kind of just covered that.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
Mongoose is trying to, because
the argument was Mongo doesn't care.
You're right.
Mongo doesn't care about the database.
Mongoose is like, but we want that same
thing as we did, relational databases,
without the overhead.
So, we're just gonna attach the Mongo.
So yeah, but
it's not exactly the same though, right.
Like on Mongoose you have
a schema that's guaranteed
you that the data is going to be saved
this way, whereas a relational database,
it has nothing to do with the ORM.
It's the database that's saying
this is how it's gonna be saved.
Relational database is that
fix with columns, right.
So like it's the database that's saying,
this is how it's gonna be whereas like,
Mongo, it's still just doesn't care.
You just have this driver on top of it.
This ODM,
this ORM that's doing all that validation.
So, it's really not the same thing.
It's more so on a higher level.
It's just very abstracted away.
So it looks, you get the same result but
the same thing is not happening.
But there are pros and cons,
Postgress users json now so
you can throw json in Postgress, whereas
you couldn't before so there's tons
of support for that, and it also depends
on what you're doing with your data.
Like for a time series sort of data,
I don't know, Mongo is probably good, but
you probably want a better database for
time series, but
it also depends on the type of data.
So and then there's like,
you know, geospatial support.
Mongo has pretty good geospatial support,
but
definitely not as good as like Postgress.
Postgress has some of
the best geospatial support.
So, it all depends on the type
of data you're having.
>> Speaker 4: Can you elaborate more on
the time series data?
If you're working on something like that?
What do you recommend the most?
>> Scott Moss: I can't recommend anything,
because I've never worked on time series
data, but I can show you the best one.
It's super easy.
Best time series database.
Okay that didn't turn- that didn't come
back and do what it was supposed to do.
I can't think about time,
not influence, that's not the one.
I can't, I can't recommend that.
I have never had to deal with
time series databases, so.
But there are some,
some good ones out there.
>> Scott Moss: I wouldn't
recommend something like Postgress or
something like that.
I wouldn't recommend
a relational database like that.
>> Speaker 4: How about something like
Firebase or Mombo DB?
>> Scott Moss: Firebase.
>> Speaker 4: Or
Mombo DB?
>> Scott Moss: I wouldn't
recommend Firebase.
No, I like Firebase,
because they're realtime.
I wouldn't recommend them
as like my data store,
like this is where I'm gonna store
all the data for my applications.
Time series data?
No.
You can't even query it,
so you'd be screwed.
>> Speaker 4: If you had somewhere where
you process all the work, but
if you want to present data
once the processing is done in time
series maybe Firebase is good for
that?
>> Scott Moss: When you can't process,
you can't process correctly.
>> Speaker 4: But
just to present the ones you like once
your done processing in some other
place to able to present it out and.
>> Scott Moss: I
don't know I wouldn't use firebase for
that.
Your limited to what you can query.
Like you can't say give me this
specific thing and this specific time.
You can't do that it's just
like give me all the things.
If you want to do that filtering for
the client, you can do it.
If that's what you're talking about.
Yeah, you could totally do that.
You're just like, dump me the thing and
I'll do it over here.
Yeah, you could do that.
But for more fine-grained control,
I want the database to do the sorting and
filtering for me.
You're not gonna,
Firebase isn't meant for that.
It's not what it's meant for.
>> Speaker 4: So
then Mongo is better at that?
>> Scott Moss: Mongo is definitely better
at that than Firebase, but there are still
better things out there than Mongo
as far as time series database goes.
I just can't think of any,
because I've never used them.